docs/Cosigner.md, before:

# Cosigner

As much as possible, we want the trust and security of our system to be onchain. However, there are some security measures that can only be taken offchain with current technology. To provide the best of both worlds, in addition to all of the onchain protections mentioned, we also require that all permissioned user operations be signed by a cosigner that will run offchain checks before signing. Validating the cosigner signature is enforced through the PermissionManager and compliments our existing security measures (pausable, enabled permission contracts, enabled paymasters) by providing a path for flexible constraints to apply granularly per user operation.

The first set of responsibilities for the cosigner is to support blocklists for specific apps, signers, and external contracts that are compromised or intend to harm users.

Note that any blocking at the cosigner level only applies to permissioned user operations and does not impact the normal transaction flow through keys.coinbase.com. Also note that the cosigner cannot submit permissioned user operations on its own and a signature from an app to initiate is still required.

For our first permission contract, there is an additional cosigner responsibility to ensure that only native tokens are being spent. In absence of cosigning, it is actually possible for a permissioned user operation to spend contract tokens (ERC20, ERC721, ERC1155) if these tokens extend an allowance to an allowed external contract for permissions.

This situation requires two preconditions (set up in either order):

1. the user approved a permission to call contract A
2. the user approved an allowance for contract A to spend token B

Now when the app submits a user operation for the user to call contract A, it is possible for this call to spend users token B. Especially with infinite approvals being common, this is a potentially dangerous path to enable for a permission that claims to only support spending native token so we will not be cosigning these user operations to prevent this. We will detect these cases by simulating every user operation, parsing the emitted logs, and look for any log that matched the ERC20/ERC721/ERC1155 transfer logs where the `from` argument is the user's address (`userOp.sender`).

Note that this simulation logic also prevents another path for apps to attempt to spend tokens where the external contract is itself a token. This could be possible if the token contract implements our defined `permissionedCall` selector and is approved as an allowed contract by the user. We can prevent potentially malicious calls to these contracts by preventing any user operation with outboung approval events in addition to the same out-bound transfer logs limitation. Developers that want to use token contracts within permissioned user operations are encouraged to wait until we add proper onchain accounting for these cases.

Commit message:

Fix ERC20 paymaster attack via immutable cosigner (#53)
* Remove pending cosigner mechanism and make cosigner immutable and in validation phase

* Remove enabled paymaster storage, functions, tests

* Update docs

docs/Cosigner.md, after:

# Cosigner

As much as possible, we want the trust and security of our system to be onchain. However, there are some security measures that can only be taken offchain with current technology. To provide the best of both worlds, in addition to all of the onchain protections mentioned, we also require that all permissioned user operations be signed by a cosigner that will run offchain checks before signing. Validating the cosigner signature is enforced through the PermissionManager and compliments our existing security measures (pausable, enabled permission contracts, enabled paymasters) by providing a path for flexible constraints to apply granularly per user operation.

The first set of responsibilities for the cosigner is to support blocklists for specific apps, signers, and external contracts that are compromised or intend to harm users.

The cosigner is also responsible for enforcing an offchain paymaster allowlist. If a permissioned user operation is attempted which does not use an allowed paymaster, cosigning will fail. This is done to mitigate attacks involving ERC20 paymasters with a users token allowance burning their funds on failing user operations.

Note that any blocking at the cosigner level only applies to permissioned user operations and does not impact the normal transaction flow through keys.coinbase.com. Also note that the cosigner cannot submit permissioned user operations on its own and a signature from an app to initiate is still required.

For our first permission contract, there is an additional cosigner responsibility to ensure that only native tokens are being spent. In absence of cosigning, it is actually possible for a permissioned user operation to spend contract tokens (ERC20, ERC721, ERC1155) if these tokens extend an allowance to an allowed external contract for permissions.

This situation requires two preconditions (set up in either order):

1. the user approved a permission to call contract A
2. the user approved an allowance for contract A to spend token B

Now when the app submits a user operation for the user to call contract A, it is possible for this call to spend users token B. Especially with infinite approvals being common, this is a potentially dangerous path to enable for a permission that claims to only support spending native token so we will not be cosigning these user operations to prevent this. We will detect these cases by simulating every user operation, parsing the emitted logs, and look for any log that matched the ERC20/ERC721/ERC1155 transfer logs where the `from` argument is the user's address (`userOp.sender`).

Note that this simulation logic also prevents another path for apps to attempt to spend tokens where the external contract is itself a token. This could be possible if the token contract implements our defined `permissionedCall` selector and is approved as an allowed contract by the user. We can prevent potentially malicious calls to these contracts by preventing any user operation with outboung approval events in addition to the same out-bound transfer logs limitation. Developers that want to use token contracts within permissioned user operations are encouraged to wait until we add proper onchain accounting for these cases.
